docs: Add section for Kuberentes plugin Auth (#13409)
backstage/backstage: docs/features/kubernetes/authentication.md

---
id: kubernetes-auth
title: Kubernetes Authentication
description: Authentication in kubernetes plugin
---

The authentication process in kubernetes is basically separate from backstage auth, the
providers are configured so your kubernetes plugin can locate and access the clusters you
have access to, the providers currently available are categorized in server side auth and
client side auth, here's the list:

## Server Side Providers

> These providers authenticate your application with the clusters, meaning anyone that is
> logged in into your backstage app will be able to access the same clusters, the providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These providers authenticate your _application_ with the cluster, meaning anyone that is
logged in into your backstage app will be granted the same access to Kubernetes objects. The providers
```
The italics might not be totally in-style for these docs, but I find it helps to distinguish "application" in this section from "user" in the next one. Also capitalization and splitting up a run-on sentence.

> available as server side are `serviceAccount`, `googleServiceAccount`, `aws`, `azure`
> and `localKubectlProxy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available as server side are:
* `aws`
* `azure`
* `googleServiceAccount`
* `localKubectlProxy`
* `serviceAccount`
```
I think an alphabetized bullet list makes it easier to see where to contribute new auth providers when they get added in the future. Also, I didn't figure out how to do it, but maybe each of these could be a link to appropriate anchors in the configuration doc? It would be awesome if I could click `localKubectlProxy` and be taken to a description of what it means.

Author: The issue here is that these providers don't map 1:1 to the auth providers of the backstage app, case in point, `azure` would be a client side auth strategy in the app, but a server side auth with the azure CLI in the Kubernetes plugin, so not sure if it's ok to link to the same doc section...

Reviewer: I was actually imagining it would somehow be possible to link to the individual table rows under https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#clustersauthprovider, but I was mistaken

---

> id: kubernetes-auth

Reviewer: Since your link in the configuration page has a path like `/docs/features/kubernetes/authentication`, I think this needs to be
```suggestion
id: authentication
```

Author: I was not sure whether I could, didn't want the id to collide with any other in the `Auth and identity` section, seems `authentication` id is not in use so I'll apply this.

title: Kubernetes Authentication

> description: Authentication in kubernetes plugin

Reviewer: Not sure what this field gets used for, but capitalizing Kubernetes seems like the norm in these docs
```suggestion
description: Authentication in Kubernetes plugin
```

---

> The authentication process in kubernetes is basically separate from backstage auth, the

Reviewer: As a Backstage integrator, why is it important for me to know that "kubernetes is basically separate from backstage"? Maybe we can give more details or an example? The [overall auth docs](https://backstage.io/docs/auth/) mention

> The authentication system in Backstage serves two distinct purposes: sign-in and identification of users, _as well as delegating access to third-party resources_

(emphasis mine), and I think we're talking about how 'auth' in this context is about 'access delegation' rather than 'sign-in and identification of users' -- am I understanding your intention correctly? If a Backstage integrator didn't know these things were different, maybe they would be confused because there is an `azure` auth provider for kubernetes clusters, but a `microsoft` auth provider for sign-in?

Author: So technically the `microsoft` provider and `azure` provider are completely different and I shouldn't have assumed configuring the first one would contribute to the later one? that is one of the points that confused me at the start, only later I got to know the `azure` one requires you to login with the `az` CLI.
How about this? 
```
The authentication process in kubernetes relies on providers, which are not the same as the application's auth providers, the default providers are defined in `plugins/kubernetes/src/kubernetes-auth-provider/KubernetesAuthProviders.ts`, you can add custom providers there if needed.

These providers are configured so your kubernetes plugin can locate and access the clusters you
have access to, some of them have special requirements in the third party in question, like Azure's Managed AAD subscription or Azure RBAC support active on the cluster.

The providers currently available are divided into server side and
client side.
```

Reviewer 2: I like your updated suggestion @luchillo17 as it also tells the user that there's the possibility to create a custom provider if need be.

I'd probably rephrase the start slightly.

Perhaps something like this?

>The authentication process in the Kubernetes plugin relies on `KubernetesAuthProviders` for user authentication. These are not the same as the auth providers that authenticate users to Backstage itself. The default provider.....

Author: Done

providers are configured so your kubernetes plugin can locate and access the clusters you

> have access to, the providers currently available are categorized in server side auth and
> client side auth.

Reviewer: Break up the run-on sentence, and a little rephrasing to avoid saying the word 'auth' so much
```suggestion
have access to. The providers currently available are divided into server side and
client side.
```

## Server Side Providers

These providers authenticate your _application_ with the cluster, meaning anyone that is
logged in into your backstage app will be granted the same access to Kubernetes objects.
The providers available as server side are:

- `aws`
- `azure`
- `googleServiceAccount`
- `localKubectlProxy`
- `serviceAccount`

## Client Side Providers

> These providers authenticate your user with the cluster, each user will be requested for

Reviewer: italics to match the above section, break up a run-on sentence, and avoid the word 'request' which (for me at least) brings to mind HTTP requests
```suggestion
These providers authenticate your _user_ with the cluster. Each Backstage user will be prompted for
```

credentials and will have access to the clusters as long as the user has been authorized

> to access said cluster, if the cluster is listed in the `clusterLocatorMethods` in the
> config, but the user hasn't been authorized to access, the user will see the cluster

Reviewer: Break up the run-on sentence
```suggestion
to access said cluster. If the cluster is listed in the `clusterLocatorMethods` in the
config, but the user hasn't been authorized to access, the user will see the cluster
```
Now there are other reasons Backstage will access a cluster besides having it listed in `clusterLocatorMethods` -- since there are [other cluster supplier implementations](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#clusterlocatormethods) besides `config`, like `catalog`. @mclarke47 what do you think?

Author: Is the configuration for clusters in `catalog` similar to the one we use in `clusterLocatorMethods`? Is it scoped by catalog `user` or every user can see `catalog` clusters?

Author: I read again the docs and `catalog` is a type of `clusterLocatorMethods` that go inside the array, so I would say mentioning `clusterLocatorMethods` would cover `catalog` and the other methods.
